README.md, before:

# Final Project Outline, Assigned Duties, & Communication Guide

## Project Outline
- Spotify is currently the world's most valuabe music company, and for good reason. Now worth around $25 billion, the company has had a major impact on both the popularity of music streaming and the way the music industry uses the data these streaming services generate in impactful ways.
- Streaming music platforms are using data collected by consumer interaction in an effort to hone their algorithms, improve user experiences, target audiences with ads, and make overall better-informed business decisions. Spotify currently has over 108 million paying subscribers and another 124 million free users meaning there are billions of streams contributing daily to these processes, whether listeners are directly aware of it or not. Read on to explore some of the most common trends in big data use by Spotify and how that data is being used to improve streaming services today.
- A listener's taste profile is also used in a Spotify function called Daily Mixes. These playlists are separated by the genres of music the user typically gravitate toward and are comprised of songs that:
The user has saved or added to playlists.
Are written by the same artists the user has in their current playlists.
Are from new artists or albums the user does not yet know.

 

### Topic
Using Machine Learning with Text Analysis on Song Lyrics Across Genres/Moods

### Reason for Topic
Our group shared a common interest in music and creating a machine learning model that was both useful and could evolve into a larger project. 

### Source Data
- The source of data used in this project is exclusively from Spotify.
- Spotify’s API is the connexon way used in this project in order to extract data.
- Lyric API

### Questions to Answer
- Merging the data from Spotify and a lyric API, can we generate a model that accurately determines the genre/mood of a song by the lyrical content, or are other factors necessary?
- How to help transform data into business decision.
- Find how and what makes the relationship within the data we’re analyzing.
- Is text analysis alone enough to differentiate moods/genres or does the model need to review beats per minute and other variables?

## Link to Assigned Duties
Here is the link to an excel spreadsheet with what each group member worked on: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yFzIDPxS48h5qYXb1bhgNAEhpdfMf9BK/view?usp=sharing

## Communication Log
We have been meeting using Discord and messaging through Slack or Discord to coordinate the projects plans. We will continue to meet Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays given group availabliliy. 
- Meeting 11/20 in class
- Meeting 11/24 in class
- Meeting 12/1 on Zoom
- Meeting 12/3 in class class
- Meeting 12/6 on Discord
- Next Meeting 12/8 in class

Commit message:

Added link to Google slides presentation

README.md, after:

# Final Project Outline, Assigned Duties, & Communication Guide

## Project Outline
- Spotify is currently the world's most valuabe music company, and for good reason. Now worth around $25 billion, the company has had a major impact on both the popularity of music streaming and the way the music industry uses the data these streaming services generate in impactful ways.
- Streaming music platforms are using data collected by consumer interaction in an effort to hone their algorithms, improve user experiences, target audiences with ads, and make overall better-informed business decisions. Spotify currently has over 108 million paying subscribers and another 124 million free users meaning there are billions of streams contributing daily to these processes, whether listeners are directly aware of it or not. Read on to explore some of the most common trends in big data use by Spotify and how that data is being used to improve streaming services today.
- A listener's taste profile is also used in a Spotify function called Daily Mixes. These playlists are separated by the genres of music the user typically gravitate toward and are comprised of songs that:
The user has saved or added to playlists.
Are written by the same artists the user has in their current playlists.
Are from new artists or albums the user does not yet know.

### Topic
Using Machine Learning with Text Analysis on Song Lyrics Across Genres/Moods

### Reason for Topic
Our group shared a common interest in music and creating a machine learning model that was both useful and could evolve into a larger project. 

### Source Data
- The source of data used in this project is exclusively from Spotify.
- Spotify’s API is the connexon way used in this project in order to extract data.
- Lyric API

### Questions to Answer
- Merging the data from Spotify and a lyric API, can we generate a model that accurately determines the genre/mood of a song by the lyrical content, or are other factors necessary?
- How to help transform data into business decision.
- Find how and what makes the relationship within the data we’re analyzing.
- Is text analysis alone enough to differentiate moods/genres or does the model need to review beats per minute and other variables?

## Link to Google Slides Presentation
Here is the link to the presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nddvQA9pJ1J52MaG6unWViKxsb_lgtQ5arq4Pr88yl0/edit?usp=sharing 

## Link to Assigned Duties
Here is the link to an excel spreadsheet with what each group member worked on: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1yFzIDPxS48h5qYXb1bhgNAEhpdfMf9BK/view?usp=sharing

## Communication Log
We have been meeting using Discord and messaging through Slack or Discord to coordinate the projects plans. We will continue to meet Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays given group availabliliy. 
- Meeting 11/20 in class
- Meeting 11/24 in class
- Meeting 12/1 on Zoom
- Meeting 12/3 in class class
- Meeting 12/6 on Discord
- Next Meeting 12/8 in class
